Title: About Kirikiri/KAGEX

Author: Limited Partnership Wamsoft, Tsuyoshi Watanabe



● Kirikiri/KAGEX Overview



This is a system that largely extends Kirikiri/KAG, mainly in terms of layer functionality.



・Layer rotation and scaling processing

・Processing for layer stacking level control

・Layer automatic action processing



The basic concept of the system remains the same as Kirikiri/KAG, and basic functions

are maintained as they are. Before reading this document, please understand the

entirety of KAG first.



For details on KAG, please refer to



 http://devdoc.kikyou.info/tvp/docs/kag3doc/contents/



.



● Notices



fadepausebgm/setbgmlabel/clearbgmlabel/setbgmstop/clearbgmstop 

timeout/ctimeout/click/cclick/wheel/cwheel have been integrated into KAG.



The origin rule for Affine transformation processing has changed.

In the current system, rotation center = layer origin.

To use the traditional layout, you need to set afx, afy to center

and shift the display coordinates by that amount.



● Folder Structure



In principle, it follows KAG.



krkr.exe        Kirikiri executable file

plugin/         Plugins

tools/          Related tools

savedata/       Save data

data/           Data area

    system/     System files

    bgimage/    For background files

    bgm/        For BGM files

    fgimage/    For foreground files

    image/      Other images

    others/     Other data

    rule/       Rule images for screen updates

    scenario/   Scenario files

    sound/      Sound data

    video/      Video data

    voice/      Voice data

　　main/       System scripts * Added by KAGEX



    startup.tjs Kirikiri startup file



Basically, when specifying material files, do not include path names;

the system searches automatically by file name only.



☆ KAGEX Additional Functions



You can separately add automatic search paths in Storages.tjs.

Please add descriptions following the format in Initialize.tjs.



Example

---------------------------------------------------------------

Storages.addAutoPath("thum/"); // Folder for thumbnail images

---------------------------------------------------------------



● Explanation of Extensions



◇ Control System Extensions



◆ Wait Commands General (Extension)



For wait commands where the wait parameter is specified, after the standard wait action,

the system waits for the additional specified "time".

If the action is cancelled by a click, this additional wait does not occur.



Attributes

	wait	Additional wait specification (in ms)



* This extension is invalid for wait, wd, waituntil



◆ Wait-Enabled Commands General (Extension)



Attributes have been added to automatically execute a wait action for commands

that have a corresponding wait behavior.



Attributes

	sync	Execute wait

	wait	Additional wait specification (in ms)



Supported commands



 quake, animstart, trans, move, action, 

 fadeinbgm, fadeoutbgm, fadepausebgm, fadebgm, xchgbgm, 

 fadeinse, fadeoutse, fadese,

 playvideo



◆ Commands General (Extension)



Commands with the delayrun parameter specified are executed with a delay during wait processing.



Attributes

	delayrun    Delay parameter specification

				Number: Executed after a delay of the specified time (in ms) or more

                String: Executed at the timing of the corresponding label in BGM/SE



Delayed execution is cancelled (executed immediately at that point) before page break processing

by lineMode (after waiting for a click) or by the [delaydone] command.



◆ delaydone (New)



Forcibly executes all commands whose execution is currently delayed.



◆ delaycancel (New)



Cancels all commands whose execution is currently delayed.



◆ wd (New)



Delay wait. Waits until the corresponding label in BGM/SE is passed.

If the label has already been passed, it is ignored.



Attributes

	name	Wait label

	canskip If skippable, true



◆ td (New)



Delay execution label registration. Manually registers labels for delay processing

separately from BGM/SE labels.



Attributes

	Can register arbitrary labels in the form of LabelName=DelayTime.



◆ waituntil (New)



Functionally equivalent to the until parameter of waittag.

However, if clicked even once, the time origin of resetwait is cleared and

subsequent waituntil commands are invalidated.



◆ showwait (New)



Test command. Logs the difference from the time origin at the moment the command is executed.



◆ set (New)



Sets a variable.



Attributes

	name	Variable name tf.* f.* sf.*

	value	Value (treated as a string)



◆ func (New)



Calls a TJS function.



Attributes

	name	Global function name

	others	Parameters are passed to the function's first argument as a dictionary.



◇ Layer Extensions



◆ Non-primary layer status of the base layer



In KAGEX, the base layer is no longer Window.primaryLayer.

Please be careful.



◆ Introduction of the level concept to foreground layers



Original KAG foreground layers have a display order based on numerical order.

KAGEX introduces the concept of "levels", and display order is determined by level units.



・Layer groups with smaller levels are displayed underneath.

  -> Controllable via the laylevel command.



・Display control for "frontmost" and "backmost" is possible within the same level.

  -> Controllable via layfront / layback commands.



◆ image (Extension)



For foreground layers, in addition to the traditional image,

the following attributes can now be used.



color, storage, tile, flip are exclusive and valid in this order.

The layer size automatically becomes the size of the loaded material.



Attributes

	storage	Image specification (Extension)

		・*.emf / *.wmf vector images can also be handled.

		・When *.psb is specified, motion data is loaded.

		  Specify the following additional parameters simultaneously:

			chara			Character specification

			motion			Motion specification

			stealthchara	Hidden replacement of character

			stealthmotion	Hidden replacement of motion

			flags			Motion playback flags

			tickcount		Motion tick value	

			speed			Playback speed specification



    color   Fill color

    width   Width when filled

    height  Height when filled



    tile    Image tiling filename. Invalid if color or storage exists.

    tilex   Tile position X

    tiley   Tile position Y



	clipimage		Clipping image specification

	clipimageleft	Clipping image placement position X

	clipimagetop	Clipping image placement position Y

		When actually displaying on screen, it is displayed cut out using the alpha information of the specified image.

　　　	* Coordinate values for clip images are absolute coordinates relative to the screen.



	flip		Flip drawing target file. Invalid if color, storage, tile exists.

	fliptype	Specifies the type of flip.

				* If unspecified, the extension of the file specified in flip is also referenced.

				movie:  .mpeg .mpg .wmv

				flash:  .swf

				particle: .tjs

				fire: Unspecified

    movie   Equivalent to flip specification + fliptype:movie  * For compatibility

    fire    Equivalent to flip specification + fliptype:fire   * For compatibility





	Optional parameters for movie

	    loop    Specifies whether the video plays in a loop

	    alpha   0: Normal video

    	        1: Alpha video. Top half of screen is RGB, bottom half is Alpha.

        	    2: Alpha video. Left half of screen is RGB, right half is Alpha.



	Optional parameters for fire

	    firecolor   Fire effect color specification. red, blue, white or 

    	        specify color with 0xRRGGBB. If you chain color specifications with ":" like 

	            0xRRGGBB:0xRRGGBB, it becomes that gradient.

        	    The color written first is the part with higher temperature.

            	Colors are placed purely on average, but if you write multiple ":", 

    	        that part's area becomes longer. Alpha values become linear.

	    firegamma   Specified when directly specifying colors with firecolor and you want the 

	            fluctuation of alpha values to be non-linear.

	    firelayer   Directly specify the fire color map image with a 256x1 size layer.

	    firewidth   Fire effect area size specification. If omitted, original file size.

	    fireheight  Fire effect area size specification. If omitted, original file size.

	    fireleft    Fire effect seed image placement position.

	    firetop     Fire effect seed image placement position.

	    firemargin  Expand the fire effect image area by this amount in all directions.

	    forceh  Horizontal force specification (-8 to 8).

	    forcev  Vertical force specification (-8 to 8).

	    boundRangeH Horizontal bound range 0 to 16.

	    boundRangeV Vertical bound range 0 to 16.

	    scalingCoeff    Scaling coefficient 0 to 0.01.

	    numOfBlurForCoolMap Blur application count 0 to ...

   		textureFilterType Texture filter 0: Nearest Neighbor, 1: Bilinear.

	    coolRange   Set the amplitude of intensity 0 to 256.

    	coolStrength    Intensity 0 to 255.

	    coolParticleDensityDenominator  Cooling particle density denominator 0>.

    	coolParticleDensityNumerator    Cooling particle density numerator 0>.

	    edgeSmoothing　Whether to make the edges of the fire less conspicuous.



	Optional parameters for flash

		flashwidth

		flashheight



	Optional parameters for particle

		genratio

		ptidx



	flipx	Horizontal flip (true/false)

	flipy	Vertical flip (true/false)

	slantx	Horizontal skew rate (%)

	slanty	Vertical skew rate (%)

    zoomx   Horizontal magnification rate (%)

    zoomy   Vertical magnification rate (%)

    zoom    Magnification rate (%) XY simultaneous specification

    rotate  Rotation angle (degrees)

    afx     Rotation/Scaling origin X coordinate. center/left/right 

            or numeric value for coordinates from the top-left corner of the layer.

    afy     Rotation/Scaling origin Y coordinate. center/top/bottom

            or numeric value for coordinates from the top-left corner of the layer.

    dafx    Specifies afx along with default (returns to this value on reset).

    dafy    Specifies afy along with default (returns to this value on reset).

    type    Composition mode

            * http://devdoc.kikyou.info/tvp/docs/kr2doc/contents/index.html

    reset   Initializes all actions and attribute specifications.

            * opacity and type are initialized to those at image load.



	* Affine transformation is processed in the order of flip -> slant -> zoom -> rotate.



◆ layopt (Extension)



For foreground layers, in addition to the traditional layopt,

the following attributes can now be used.



Attributes

    type    Composition mode

            * http://devdoc.kikyou.info/tvp/docs/kr2doc/contents/index.html

    reset   Initializes all actions and attribute specifications.

            * opacity and type are initialized to those at image load.

    time    Move in specified time.

    accel   Acceleration of movement.

		Negative number: Deceleration

		0: Linear

		Positive number: Acceleration

		"acdec": Acceleration/Deceleration (Cubic curve)

		"accos": Acceleration/Deceleration (Cosine movement)

    nowait  Do not cancel during wait processing.

　　left    Corresponds to time.

    top     Corresponds to time.

    afx     Rotation/Scaling origin X coordinate. center/left/right 

            or numeric value for coordinates from the top-left corner of the layer.

    afy     Rotation/Scaling origin Y coordinate. center/top/bottom

            or numeric value for coordinates from the top-left corner of the layer.

    rotate  Rotation angle

    zoomx   Horizontal magnification rate

    zoomy   Vertical magnification rate

    zoom    Magnification rate

    raster      Amplitude amount of raster scroll

    rasterlines Number of lines for raster scroll

    rastercycle Cycle of raster scroll

    tilex   Tile position X

    tiley   Tile position Y

	clipimage		Clipping image specification

	clipimageleft	Clipping image placement position X

	clipimagetop	Clipping image placement position Y



　　+ Various flip effect parameters can also be adjusted and specified.



	Parameters valid only during motion playback:



	chara			Character specification

	motion			Motion specification

	stealthchara	Hidden replacement of character

	stealthmotion	Hidden replacement of motion

	flags			Motion playback flags

	tickcount		Motion tick value	

	speed			Playback speed specification



◆ laylevel (New)



Specifies the display level of the foreground layer.



Attributes

    layer   Specify layer (Foreground layer only)

    page    Specify front/back screen (defaults to fore if omitted)  

    level   Display level

            Target for grouping in layfront/layback.

            Higher display levels are displayed on top.



◆ layfront (New)



Moves the foreground layer to the very front of the same display level.



Attributes

    layer   Specify layer (Foreground layer only)

    page    Specify front/back screen (defaults to fore if omitted)  



◆ layback (New)



Moves the foreground layer to the very back of the layers with the same display level.



Attributes

    layer   Specify layer (Foreground layer only)

    page    Specify front/back screen (defaults to fore if omitted)  



◆ wv (Extension)



When the layer parameter is specified, waits for the completion of video playback on the foreground layer.



Attributes

    layer   Layer currently playing video. If "all", waits for movies on all layers.

    canskip true if skippable.





◆ clearlayers (New)



Clears the contents of all layers and stops display.



Attributes

    page    Specify front/back screen



◆ action (New)



Specifies automated action drive for a foreground layer.



Attributes

    layer   Specify layer (Foreground only)

    page    Specify front/back screen

    time    Specifies the time the action is executed. Infinite loop if unspecified.

    delay   Specifies the delay time until the action starts.

    nowait  Disables wait for the action. 

            (Will no longer respond to action release processing of wact or wait).

    action  Direct specification of action (Name of global dictionary or array).

    module  Module specification of action (Old style).

    

* There are attribute parameters for each type of action.

　Please refer to action.txt for action types and their attributes.



◆ stopaction (New)



Stops the action of the specified layer.

If specification is omitted, actions on all layers are stopped.



Attributes

    layer   Specify layer (Foreground only)

    page    Specify front/back screen



◆ wact (New)



Waits for the completion of the action on the specified layer.

If specification is omitted, waits for the completion of actions on all layers.

Actions specified with nowait cannot be waited for.



Attributes

    layer   Specify layer (Foreground only)

    page    Specify front/back

    canskip Value true (default) or false

            If true is specified, the wait can be skipped by clicking.



◆ wat (New)



Waits for the completion of actions and transitions on the specified layer.

If specification is omitted, waits for the completion of actions and transitions on all layers.

Actions specified with nowait cannot be waited for.



Attributes

    layer   Specify layer (Foreground only)

    page    Specify front/back

    canskip Value true (default) or false

            If true is specified, the wait can be skipped by clicking.



◆ ltbegin (New)



Start of screen switching using layers.

Performs screen switching using a mask by a layer placed on the very front of the screen.



Usage

-------------------

[ltbegin]

Place commands for screen switching (Do not perform transitions etc.!)

[ltend]

-------------------



Attributes

    type    Switching type

             trans   Transition * Default if unspecified

             wipeltor Wipe from left to right

             wipertol Wipe from right to left

             fade    Crossfade

    time    Switching time (1000ms if omitted)

    color   Color used for screen blackout (Black if omitted)

    wait    Wait time after screen blackout



◆ ltend (New)



End of screen switching using layers.



Attributes

    Same as ltbegin. If omitted, remains the previous value.



◇ Message Window Display System Extensions



◆ Overview of Extensions



To be convenient for creating ADV style games,

writing rules have been extended, and it is possible to assign automatic processing

for line breaks.



Also, extensions have been made internally to support "Name Layer" and "Expression Layer".



◆ linemode (New)



Switches the rules for line breaks in KAG.

By using this, it becomes unnecessary to explicitly write

[l] or [cm] etc. in the case of message window style works.



* Note: When linemode is enabled, the ignoreCR setting becomes forcibly ON.



Attributes

    mode    line or page

            If unspecified, returns to normal KAG behavior.



Term Explanation

　Line Break (New Line): A line break caused by a newline code directly entered in the text.

　Empty Line: Refers to one or more consecutive lines containing only line breaks.



In case of line

    Line Break: Executes [l]

    Empty Line: Ignored

    [p] : Normal function



In case of page

    Line Break: [p] + Automatic page clear

    Empty Line: Ignored



In case of vn

    Line Break: Executes [l]

    Empty Line: [p] + Automatic page clear



In case of tex:



    Line Break: Ignored

    Empty Line: [p] + Automatic page clear



In case of free:



    Line Break: Line Break

    Empty Line: [p] + Automatic page clear



Line breaks via the [r] tag function purely as line breaks within the message window.

"Automatic clear" is performed by [er] at the "start of text display for the next line".

* If you want to perform this immediately after [p], please enable erafterpage.



Furthermore, when line mode is enabled, if there is a description like



【Name/DisplayName】



at the beginning of a line,

the name display command [dispname name=Name disp=DisplayName] is automatically called.



◆ nor (New)



Suppresses the behavior caused by "newline characters (CR)" in line mode processing just once.

Place this at the end of a line when you want to break a line because it is too long

in vn mode etc., but do not want the effect (of a wait).



◆ afterline (New)



・After the end of [l] wait upon a line break in line mode

・After the end of [l] wait upon a line break in vn mode



This is a special internal tag executed at these times.

In KAGEX, it is an empty command.

In the WORLD extension, it is used for delimiter processing of voice history.



◆ afterpage (New)



A special internal tag automatically executed after [p] processing.

In KAGEX, it is an empty command.

In the WORLD extension, it is used for delimiter processing of voice history.



◆ dispname (New)



A special internal tag for displaying names.



Attributes

    name    Specifies the name

    disp    Specifies the display name



In KAGEX, it simply displays the name as text as is.

In the WORLD extension, processing using a name window is called.



◆ craftername (New)



Changes the behavior of the line break immediately following the name notation 【Name/DisplayName】 in line mode.



Attributes

    mode    If true, ignores the line break immediately after the name. If false, treats it as a normal line break.



--------------------------------------

【Ruriko】Giggle



【Ruriko】

Giggle

--------------------------------------



If true, both notations become equivalent.



◆ erafterpage (New)



Specifies whether to automatically perform the [er] action immediately after [p].



Attributes

    mode    If true, the [er] action is performed immediately after the processing of [p].



Note

　If this is enabled, automatic clearing in line mode

　(clearing immediately before the next text display) is not performed.



◆ autoindent (New)



When enabled, if "「" or "『" exists immediately after the name,

indentation processing is automatically performed.



Attributes

    mode    true or false



◆ autolabelmode (deprecated)



** Abolished. Please describe in Config.tjs.



◇ Message Window UI Extensions



◆ Overview



UI functions such as buttons placed in the message window have been extended.

Also, each placed object can be referenced by name via the

layer.names[] property.



Example

-------------------------------------------------

[current page=fore name=message0]

[button name=auto normal="auto"] // Register button



Referenceable from tjs with the following description

kag.fore.messages[0].names["auto"]

-------------------------------------------------



Extensions for general items



Attributes

    name    Specifies the name of the UI part.



◆ button (Extension)



Extended so that image button files can be specified individually.



Attributes

    normal  Image when normal

    over    Image on mouse over    Same as normal if omitted

    on      Image when pressed     Same as over if omitted

    focus   Image when focused     Same as focus if omitted

    animcount   Specifies the number of patapata (flip) animation patterns

    animtime    Specifies the interval time for patapata animation. 1000/animcount if omitted.



* About the button animation function



You can make buttons perform simple patapata (flip-book) animations.



・The pattern display interval is fixed.

・Simple loop only.

・Display switches one after another through image files connected vertically.

  Specify images that are pre-formatted this way for graphic/normal/over/on/focus etc.

  The vertical height on the button display becomes

  Vertical height of image file / animcount.



* Need to add notation regarding support for radio buttons and trigger buttons XXX



◆ slider (New)



Places a slide bar on the message layer.



Attributes

    exp         Assignment destination upon commit

    bgcolor     Background color

    opacity     Background opacity

    value       Linked variable name. If specified,

                (1) References the specified variable as the initial value

                (2) Assigns the value to the specified variable upon change

                Performs these actions. If this is specified, onchange and onchangefunc are invalid.

    position    Initial value

    onchange    Variable name to assign the changed value to

    onchangefunc Specifies a function called when changed

                 Called in the form of func(position, dragging);

　　　　　　　　 If specified, onchange is invalid.



    base        Background image name.

                If specified, width and height become the size of the background image.

    width       Background width

    height      Background height

    tab         Tab image (Batch). Specify an image with normal / on / over arranged horizontally in that order.

    normal      Tab image normal (Separate)

    over        Tab image mouse over (Separate)

    on          Tab image push down (Separate)



    nohighlicht Do not highlight

    jumpmode    Jump mode (Moves to the location when the slider base is clicked)



◆ sysbutton (New)



Places a system button on the message layer.

System buttons are not cleared even by ct.



Attributes

     Follows button.



◆ csysbutton (New)



Clears system buttons.



◆ uiload (New)



Reads data from a user interface definition file

and automatically places parts such as buttons.



Attributes

    page        Target page (fore/back)

    layer       Target message layer

    storage     Definition file to read

    partremove  Target parts to exclude

    partexcept  Target parts to exclude other than specified



    Two types of files, basename.csv and basename.func, are loaded.

    * Both function the same, but it is assumed that .csv describes only placement,

    and .func describes definitions for functions.



◇ Selection Function Extensions (New)



A dedicated selection function different from Link.



◆ selopt (New)



Selection condition initialization.



Attributes

    normal  Button normal image

    over    Button over image

    left    Button placement area left

    top     Button placement area top

    width   Button placement area size

    height  Button placement area size



◆ seladd (New)



Registers a choice.



Attributes

  text    Text to display

　storage File to jump to when selected

  target  Label to jump to when selected

  exp     Code to execute when selected

  eval    Choice display condition

  onceflag Flag specification for display only once (Automatically turns ON)



  Use exp if you want to perform variable processing, etc., and use

  storage/target if you want to branch directly.



◆ select (New)



  Execute selection processing.



  If storage/target was specified, after the selection processing,

  it jumps to that destination. In the case of exp, execution continues

  from the line following [select].



Attributes

  storage   File to merge into with the seldone command after selection branching

  target    Label to merge into with the seldone command after selection branching



◆ seldone (New)



  Merge processing after selection.

  If storage/target is specified in the choice added with seladd,

　and this command exists, it merges to the storage/target specified in select.



◆ mselinit (New)



Initializes map choices. Registered information is cleared.



◆ mselbutton (New)



Registers a button for map selection.



Attributes

    image       Image specification.

    width       Image width specification (Optional)

    height      Image height specification (Optional)

    count       Animation pattern specification within image (Exclusive with height, Optional)



    The image for map selection should be formatted such that:

     Vertical direction: Animation patterns

　　 Horizontal direction: Arranged in the order of normal over.

　　 Specify the number of animation patterns with count.



◆ mselpos (New)



Registers the placement position of the button for map selection.



Attributes

    name        Name of the position

    left        X direction coordinate

    top         Y direction coordinate



If multiple selections are specified for the same location,

they are placed in the left-right direction centering on the coordinate position.



◆ mseladd (New)



Registers a choice.



Attributes

  text    Target to display (Registered with mselopt)

  pos     Position to display (Registered with mse)

　storage File to jump to when selected

  target  Label to jump to when selected

  exp     Code to execute when selected



◆ mselopt (New)



Specifies options for map choices.



Attributes

    interval        Animation interval of placed choices

    buttonWidth     Width between buttons when placing multiple buttons

    enterse         SE specification upon enter

    leavese         SE specification upon leave

    clickse         SE specification upon click

    frame           Background image specification

    frameKey

    frameColor

    frameOpacity



◆ mselect (New)



  Execute selection processing.



◆ bradd (New)



Registers an in-scene branch. Functionally equivalent to constructing with jump.

It is prepared to write in the same style as the select series.



Attributes

  target  Label to jump to when branching

  exp     Code to execute when branching

  eval    Branch condition



◆ branch (New)



  Execute branching.



  If storage/target was specified, after the selection processing,

  it jumps to that destination. In the case of exp, execution continues

  from the line following [select].



Attributes

  target    Label to merge into with the brdone command after selection branching



◆ brdone (New)



  Merge processing after branching.

  If this command exists after branching with bradd,

  it merges to the target specified in branch.



◆ next (New)



Functionally equivalent to jump, but since it includes read counter increment processing,

please basically use this.

* There is no problem if you place a label before jump.



Attributes

　storage File to jump to

  target  Label to jump to

  eval    Branch condition



◇ Scene Recollection Function (New)



Auxiliary functions to realize "Scene Recollection".



A: Specification within scenario



1. Enclose the part you want to recall with labels

-------------------

*kaisouBeginNumber

......

*kaisouEndNumber

-------------------

.



2. You can call the scene recollection with the recollection command by specifying no (number).



In this method, the recollection process is performed using save data.

Therefore, please be aware that it is affected by inconsistencies in save data.



B: Preparing a recollection scenario separately



1. Prepare a scenario for recollection separately from the original main text.

   Put the endrecollection command at the end of that scenario.

2. Call the scene recollection scenario with the recollection command specifying storage/target.



◆ recollection (New)



Calls recollection processing. (Equivalent to kag.startRecollection(elm))

Please note that if the call is successful, processing does not return.



For a call with no to succeed, the label *kaisouBeginNumber needs to

have been passed. You can confirm passage by referencing the system flag

trail_Scenario_*kaisouBeginNumber.

In this case, processing ends at the *kaisouEndNumber label.



Specification with storage/target is also possible instead of no. In this case,

you can end the recollection with the endrecollection command.



Attributes

    no Recollection number

    storage Scenario for recollection

    target  Target for recollection

    doneStorage Scenario called after recollection ends

    doneTarget  Label called after recollection ends





During recollection processing...

・kag.isRecollection becomes true.

・Bookmark saving related processing is prohibited.

・It is always treated as already read.



◆ endrecollection (New)



Ends recollection processing.

Transitions to the end processing registered with recollection.



◆ stoprecollection (New)



Forcibly ends recollection processing.

The recollection state is released.



◆ clearplaytime (New)



Clears play time information.

Play time is saved in bookmarks and can be obtained with

kag.getBookMarkPlayTime(num).



◇ Other Command Extensions



◆ trace (Extension)



If an array or dictionary is passed, information on individual elements is displayed.



◆ beginskip (New)



When clicked, forcibly skips processing until endskip.

Basically, do not include skip-related processing between

beginskip and endskip. It may cause malfunction.



* Forced release occurs if transitioned to another scenario via jump etc.

* beginskip cannot be nested.



◆ endskip (New)



A tag indicating the end of special skip mode.



● About Special Specification Changes



◇ Change in specification of askYesNo function



The behavior related to askYesNo has undergone a major specification change.

Please be careful as you need to completely revise the code if you were

using it uniquely in KAG.



Previous version: 



  askYesNo(message, title)



　Execution of TJS is blocked until the dialog processing is finished, and the YES/NO result is

　returned.



New version:



  askYesNo(message, title, yesFunc, noFunc, param, doneFunc);



  yesFunc  : Processing executed when YES

  noFunc   : Processing executed when NO

  param    : Parameter passed to each function

  doneFunc : Processing executed in either case of yes or no



  Return value: None

　　

　Note:

　　Since there is a "possibility" of immediate execution return, it is necessary

　　to implement assuming that.



◇ Dialog Layer Extension





◇ squirrel Extension



It is possible to execute squirrel scripts in a thread in the background separately from KAG.



◆ sq (New)



Thread execution of squirrel script.

Executes the specified squirrel script in the background.

kag and the passed parameters are passed as-is to the script as startup arguments.



Attributes

	name	Script identifier name

	storage	Script file (.nut)



◆ wsq (New)



Wait for squirrel script completion.



Attributes

	name	Script identifier name

	canskip	If true, can be cancelled by clicking. Default: false



◇ Motion Extensions



Foreground Layer

　By specifying *.psb as image data with the image tag, motions can be

　displayed as video.

  Playback motion can be switched with the layopt tag.



Message Layer

　There are dedicated extensions for using motion as UI.



◆ motionload (New)



Loads motion into the current message layer.



Attributes

	storage		Motion file name

	separate	Motion separation specification (default true)

	width		Layer width

	height		Layer height

	left		Layer coordinate X

	top			Layer coordinate Y

	motionleft	Motion placement position X (Center if omitted)

	motiontop	Motion placement position Y (Center if omitted)



* Parameters of motionopt can also be specified together.

* wmotion for the current is called by sync/wait.



◆ motionopt (New)



Controls the motion of the current message layer.



Attributes

	stealthchara

	chara

	stealthmotion

	motion

	tickcount

	speed



* wmotion for the current is called by sync/wait.



◆ wmotion (New)



Waits for the completion of the action on the specified layer.

If specification is omitted, waits for the completion of actions on all layers.



Attributes

	layer	Specify layer (Foreground or Message layer)

	page	Specify front/back

	canskip	If true (default) is specified, the wait can be skipped by clicking.



● KAGEX Operation System



KAGEX Shortcut List (Basically the same as KAG)



 CONTROL        Forced skip * Only this is added in KAGEX

 RETURN/SPACE   Equivalent to left click

 ESCAPE 　      Equivalent to right click (Normal message clear)



 F Proceed to next choice/unread

 B Go back

 A Automatically read forward (Activate AUTO)

 S Insert bookmark (Activate Save)

 L Follow bookmark (Activate Load)

 R or SHIFT+Up Display message history



 TAB        Move button focus

 Cursor     Move button focus



● System Property Extensions



Special system parameters like the following are extended in MainWindow (ksg).



◆ Operation Control Variables



allskip     false: Skip only read  true: Skip all

afterauto   false: Cancel AUTO at choice  true: Continue AUTO after selection

afterskip   false: Cancel SKIP at choice  true: Continue SKIP after selection

nosewhenskip false: Do not play SE when skipping  true: Play SE even when skipping

             * Valid only in WORLD extension



◆ Voice Operation Control Variables



* These have no meaning in KAGEX alone. They just store values in variables.

  The voice function of the WORLD extension references them as values.



voicecut    true: Clear all voices before playing the next voice

voicecutpage    true: Apply voicecut effect after page end (before next effect)

        false: Apply voicecut effect before name display

bgmdown     true: Lower BGM volume when playing voice



◆ Convenient Properties



textspeed       Text speed specification 0 to 10 (Instant display at 10)

autospeed       Automatic playback wait time 0 to 10

drawspeed       Drawing speed adjustment for effects 1.0: Normal 0: Instant

noeffect        Convenient specification for drawspeed. Specify with true/false



wavevolume		Master volume 0 to 100

bgmenable       BGM is enabled

bgmvolume       BGM volume 0 to 100

seenable        SE is enabled

sevolume        SE volume 0 to 100

sysseenable		System SE is enabled

syssevolume		System SE volume 0 to 100



◆ Voice Related Properties/Methods



* These have no meaning in KAGEX alone. They just store values in variables.

  The voice function of the WORLD extension references them as values.



voiceenable                 Voice is enabled

voicevolume                 Voice volume 0 to 100

getVoiceOn(name)            Whether the voice of the character with the specified name is enabled

getVoiceVolume(name)        Get the volume of the voice of the character with the specified name

setVoiceVolume(name,vol)    Specify the volume of the voice of the character with the specified name



bgvenable                   Background voice is enabled

bgvvolume                   Background voice volume 0 to 100

getBGVVolume(name)          Get the volume of the BGV of the character with the specified name



● About Automatic Label Processing



◇ Overview



"Saving" in KAG is performed in units of "labels" explicitly attached by the user.



Reference:

  http://devdoc.kikyou.info/tvp/docs/kag3doc/contents/SaveLoad.html



In ADV type games, this restricts save points,

which is quite inconvenient for users.



In KAGEX, there is an "Automatic Label Mode", and enabling this allows saving

at every [p]. If line mode is enabled, this becomes effective at every

virtual [p].



Accordingly, read management is also not in units of normal simple labels,

but in units of labels + line count from the label, enabling fine-grained control.



Specify the following variables. Can be specified in Config.tjs.



 kag.autoLabelMode      Automatic Label Mode. Enabled with true.

 kag.autoLabelType      Specification of control type for Automatic Label Mode 0: call method 1: line number method

 

◇ call Method



　This is the autoLabelMode in old KAGEX.

  It is a method of labeling by calling call processing at every [p].



　Due to the process of returning from the call recorded in this mode, the check for

　restoration processing is strict, and restoration of saved data when scenario data

　is rewritten is harder to guarantee than with labels. Please be careful.



◇ Line Number Method



  This is a new method. By modifying KAG's load processing and execution system,

　information is recorded by the nearby label and the skip processing by line count

　from there.



　・Since it does not go through call, there is a high possibility of restoration even when information shifts.

　・Errors due to file modification during scripting work do not occur.

　

　It has such features. Basically, it is recommended to use this for new projects.



　Note that when using this mode, saving as a label is the same as when autoLabelMode = false,

  so by manually placing savable labels at key points in the scenario file,

　it is possible to use "Return to previous label" and "Proceed to next label"

　via the "Automatic Label Save" of the debug menu.



● About Voice Parse Function



◇ Overview



An application of line mode extension, this allows voice number assignment to be processed

according to the absolute position in the file rather than by the flow of the scenario.

It has the merit that the file number specification does not change even if there is branching in the scenario.



◇ Specification Method



[parse voice=1]



All commands after this instruction are parsed in advance,

and dedicated voice processing is embedded. The handling of voice differs.



・The character voice specification function is always overwritten, so it becomes meaningless.

・Use the following special voice specifications:



// Voice number specification

[voice name=CharName voice=123]



// Voice complete stop (specify a negative number)

[voice name=CharName voice=-1]



// Voice single-shot ignore

[voice name=CharName ignore]



// Voice single-shot ignore replacement

[voice name=CharName ignore replace]



// Voice single-shot interrupt

[voice name=CharName voice=VOICE123]



// Voice single-shot interrupt (in case of number)

[voice name=CharName voice=123 once]



// Voice single-shot replacement

[voice name=CharName voice=VOICE123 replace]



// Voice single-shot interrupt (in case of number)

[voice name=CharName voice=123 replace]



● Debug Menu Extension



In KAGEX, the debug menu has been extended from the traditional KAG.



◇ Debug Level



Controls the output level of logs displayed on the console.

Choose from None/Simple/Detail.



◇ Debug Window Display



On the bottom side of the screen,



・Currently executing Line Number: Scenario Name Label

・Content of the executing line



will always be displayed.



◇ KAGEX Log Mode



When enabled, error logs related to materials in the KAGEX WORLD extension

will be recorded all separately.



Recorded logs are output to the debug log folder (usually under savedata)

via "Output KAGEX Log".

It can be used to check the operation of materials.